docs/message-queue-setup.md, before:

# Message queue set up

This app is using Kafka. It's massively overpowered for what it needs. It meets the following criteria:

1. Messaging of websockets across [separate server instances](https://hackernoon.com/scaling-websockets-9a31497af051)
1. Potential future integration with [cloud services](https://www.confluent.io/azure/?utm_medium=sem&utm_source=google&utm_campaign=ch.sem_br.nonbrand_tp.prs_tgt.kafka_mt.mbm_rgn.emea_lng.eng_dv.all&utm_term=%2Bkafka%20%2Bazure&creative=&device=c&placement=&gclid=Cj0KCQjwhIP6BRCMARIsALu9Lfn6lehMziNavfOl5oKas05QbLm1Xkz-oJyvDjPseiI2as18cmczm_0aAtFeEALw_wcB)
1. Free and open source
1. Runs locally, no Azure subscription needed

## Set up

Roughly following an [excellent blog article](https://medium.com/@yusufs/getting-started-with-kafka-in-golang-14ccab5fa26)

Set up the kafka instances and zookeepers

`MY_IP=192.168.178.98 docker-compose up -d`

Create the game topic

`docker run --net=host --rm confluentinc/cp-kafka:5.0.0 kafka-topics --create --topic game --partitions 4 --replication-factor 2 --if-not-exists --zookeeper localhost:32181`

Test with kafkacat

`kafkacat -C -b localhost:19092,localhost:29092 -t game -p 0`

## Server integration

There were a few choices, and all look viable and maintained. I followed the article for simplicity. If the support for multiple partitions is implemented in the confluent/samara version, those would probably be better.

[kafka-go](https://godoc.org/github.com/segmentio/kafka-go)
[confluent-kafka-go](https://github.com/confluentinc/confluent-kafka-go)
[samara](https://github.com/Shopify/sarama)

Commit message:

feat: read from external message queue
Before this commit, we were only writing to the queue with test messages, but this implements reading, writing and processing based on those messages, and a slightly improved routing system.
Add a third kafka and zookeeper, for simplicity with the default configs
also decouple input messages from output messages
and add a simple JSON structure format for communication
A lot is in messages, and will be separated out as the next server side task
communication is still global at the moment
also had some trouble with kafka, so updated the docs to give that hint
Separated out player ready from game ready (preliminary)

docs/message-queue-setup.md, after:

# Message queue set up

This app is using Kafka. It's massively overpowered for what it needs. It meets the following criteria:

1. Messaging of websockets across [separate server instances](https://hackernoon.com/scaling-websockets-9a31497af051)
1. Potential future integration with [cloud services](https://www.confluent.io/azure/?utm_medium=sem&utm_source=google&utm_campaign=ch.sem_br.nonbrand_tp.prs_tgt.kafka_mt.mbm_rgn.emea_lng.eng_dv.all&utm_term=%2Bkafka%20%2Bazure&creative=&device=c&placement=&gclid=Cj0KCQjwhIP6BRCMARIsALu9Lfn6lehMziNavfOl5oKas05QbLm1Xkz-oJyvDjPseiI2as18cmczm_0aAtFeEALw_wcB)
1. Free and open source
1. Runs locally, no Azure subscription needed

## Set up

Roughly following an [excellent blog article](https://medium.com/@yusufs/getting-started-with-kafka-in-golang-14ccab5fa26)

Set up the kafka instances and zookeepers

`MY_IP=192.168.178.98 docker-compose up -d`

Create the game topic

`docker run --net=host --rm confluentinc/cp-kafka:5.0.0 kafka-topics --create --topic game --partitions 4 --replication-factor 2 --if-not-exists --zookeeper localhost:32181`

Test with kafkacat. The replication factor here is important - starting with fewer kafka instances will cause issues. There should be a way to configure this, but I haven't looked into this.

`kafkacat -C -b localhost:19092,localhost:29092,localhost:39092 -t game -p 0`

There is no volume mapping of the config or the logs, and in my experience the containers trip over themselves unless restarting from scratch. If having issues, `docker-compose down --volumes` can be your friend.

## Server integration

There were a few choices, and all look viable and maintained. I followed the article for simplicity. If the support for multiple partitions is implemented in the confluent/samara version, those would probably be better.

[kafka-go](https://godoc.org/github.com/segmentio/kafka-go)
[confluent-kafka-go](https://github.com/confluentinc/confluent-kafka-go)
[samara](https://github.com/Shopify/sarama)
